---
category: homeworks
layout: post
date: 2023-01-17
---
{% capture pageassetpath %}{{site.baseurl}}/{{ page.path | replace: "_posts", "assets" | replace: ".md", "" }}{% endcapture %}

* Total marks: 130
* Due on 01/24 before class. Submit the writeup on paper in class and a backup
  copy on brightspace. Submit the code files on brightspace seprately on
  brightspace.


If you have taken the ECE 491/591 Deep Learning OR  SCIS 498/598 Machine Learning in the previous semesters, then you can skip this assignment and work on [a project proposal]({{site.baseurl}}/posts/0000-00-04-project-proposal).

# Problem 1
(20 marks)

The factorial of a non-negative integer n , denoted by $n!$, is the product of all positive integers less than or equal to n . The factorial of n also equals the product of n with the next smaller factorial:

$n ! = n × ( n − 1 ) × ( n − 2 ) × ( n − 3 ) × ⋯ × 3 × 2 × 1 = n × ( n − 1 ) !$

For example,
$5 ! = 5 × 4 ! = 5 × 4 × 3 × 2 × 1 = 120.$
The value of 0! is 1, according to the convention for an empty product.

Write a recursive C or Python function to compute factorial of a natural number n. It should pass the test_factorial function 10 times. test_factorial function is given. 

C programmers: download and edit the file [test_factorial.c]({{site.baseurl}}/assets/0000-00-02-prereq-hw/test_factorial.c) .

Python programmers: write functions similar to test_factorial.c
including the test functions.

Complete the funciton and submit the file as a separate file to brightspace.

# Problem 2
(20 marks)

A natural number (1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, etc.) is called a prime number (or a prime) if it is greater than 1 and cannot be written as the product of two smaller natural numbers.

Write a C or Python function to calculate if a number is prime. Return 1 if it is prime and 0 if it is not a prime. If the number is not a prime number, then a factor exists. Return the factor as through a pointer.

C programmers: Download and edit the file [test_prime.c](https://vikasdhiman.info/ECE490-Neural-Networks/assets/0000-00-02-prereq-hw/test_prime.c). Complete the funciton and submit the file as a separate file to brightspace.

Python programmers: write functions similar to test_factorial.c
including the test functions.

Complete the funciton and submit the file as a separate file to brightspace.

# Problem 3
(20 marks)

Write a C or Python function named `days()` that determines the number of days from the turn
of the century (01/01/2000) for any date within the century passed as a structure. The date structure should use the template

```c
struct date {
    int month;
    int day;
    int year;
}
```

In writing the `days()` function, use the convention that all years have 360 days and each
month consists of 30 days. The function should return the number of days for any date
structure passed to it. Make sure to declare the returned variable a long integer to reserve sufficient room for dates such as 12/19/2099.


# Problem 4: Probability and statistics
(30 marks)

1. Write the definitions of Random Variable, Expectation, and Variance. (5
   marks) 
2. What is the difference between Expectation and a sample mean? When do they converge? (5 marks)
3. Write the three axioms (properties) of a Probability distribution (measure). (5 marks)
4. What is the difference between Probability density function,
   a Probability mass function and  Cumulative distribution function. (5
   marks)
5. Prove that for any Random Variable $X$, the variance $V(X) = E[X^2] - E[X]^2$. (5 marks)
6. Prove that $E[X^2] > 0$ (5 marks)
<!-- 4. Prove that the expectation is a linear. $ E[\alpha X + \beta Y] = \alpha
   E[X] + \beta E[Y] $ for any real scalars $\alpha, \beta \in \mathbb{R}$ and random variables $X$ and $Y$ under conditions of finiteness (all integrals are finite). -->
<!-- 6. Define independent random variables. -->

<!--
# Problem 5

1. What is an unbiased estimator?
2. What the bias and variance of an estimator?
3. Let $X_1, X_2, \dots, X_n$ be a random sample of size n.
    1. Show that $X^2$ is a biased estimator for $\mu^2$.
    2. Find the amount of bias in this estimator.
    3. What happens to the bias as the sample size $n$ increases?
4. Aircrew escape systems are powered by a solid propellant. The burning rate of this propellant is an important product characteristic. Specifications require that the mean burning rate must be 50 cm/s. We know that the standard deviation of burning rate is $ \sigma = 2 cm/s$. The experimenter decides to specify a type I error probability or significance level of $\alpha = 0.05$. He selects a random sample of $n = 25$ and obtains a sample average burning rate of $x = 51.3 cm/s$. What conclusions should he draw?
-->

<!--
# Problem 6

Consider the data in [table-6-14.csv]({{ pageassetpath }}/table-6-14.csv), use C-programming to assist you in multiple linear regression, and answer the following questions. Use [regresssion.c]({{ pageassetpath }}/regression.c). It provides functions for reading csv file and plotting. They account 50 points of this assignment. 
    1. Which of these six regressors will be kept in your final regression equation? Why? P-value = 0.10
    2. Find the regression coefficients for each regressor in your final equation. 
    3. Give the overall multiple R for your final equation.
    4. Give the adjusted R square
    5. Out print your residual plots for your final regression equation and comment about your plots.
    -->

# Problem 5
(20 marks)

Resources: [Khan academy](https://www.khanacademy.org/math/multivariable-calculus)

1. Find the mininimum point the function $f(x) = x^2 - 6x + 33$ using
   calculus. Write the property of derivatives that made you reach the answer?
   (10 marks)

2. Find the mininimum point the function $f(x, y) = x^2 - 6x + y^2 - 8x - xy +
   33$ using calculus. Write the property of derivatives that made you reach
   the answer? (10 marks)
   
# Problem 6
(20 marks)

1. Given two matrices $A$ of size $m \times n$ and $B$ of size $p \times q$,
   when is the matrix multiplication $AB$ valid? When is the matrix
   multiplication $BA$ valid? When is the addition $A + B$ valid? (5 marks)

2. Define dot product for two vectors? How to test when two given vectors are
   perpendicular? Assume you have two n-dimensional vectors $\vec{a} = [a_1, a_2, \dots, a_n]$ and $\vec{b} = [b_1, b_2, \dots, b_n]$. Denote dot product as, $\vec{a} \cdot \vec{b}$? (5 marks)

3. Define cross product for two vectors? How to test when two vectors are
   parallel to other? (5 marks)

4. What is a unit vector? How to can you find the magnitude of a vector? (5
   marks)


